Hey Guys
This is Aaron Lawson here and we are
heading to the first day of summer
league practice
I'm actually coming off the golf course
because today I had a
golf tournament so I've got about an hour to
get to practice
I'm if you are just tuning in for the
first time what's gonna happen is
I'm going to documents as I go through my
summer league season so hopefully
as I see things that my
kids are doing wrong then I'm going to offer some
advice to you
The episodes are gonna go quick and
fast, they're just got a touch on the
points that
I feel are important for swimmers to do
as
they progress through the season
so hopefully
you guys can be on the same
page and everything works out and I hope
you guys
enjoy the show.  Alright guys
today
at practice, the main thing that we worked
on
making sure that we're comfortable
in the water, making sure that everybody
is OK going
under the water, letting all of the air out of their lungs
That's a skill that takes a little bit of
practice with the younger kids
also we worked on our kicking, our
flutter kick which
is used without freestyle and backstroke
It's the common kick and
the big thing that we worked on is
making sure that we have long legs, make
sure we have floppy feet
and that our kick was short and fast.
One of the big things that developing
swimmers struggle with is bending
their knees too much
while they're kicking and that's actually
BAD NEWS!
You want to lengthen those legs out.
Make sure your feet are flopping on
the end
and when you're in the water you want to
make sure that your kick is just barely
underneath the surface of the water.  You
really don't want it to be
above the water to where your foot is
breaking the water
and don't want it to be so deep that it's
actually slowing you down.  Alright so
those are the main skills for today.
Alright I'm here with my assistant coach John
JOHN: How's it going?
Yeah, I'm going to ask him a joke--it's really not that funny but we're going to see what
he thinks
What you cats eat for breakfast?
JOHN: What?
Mice Krispies
Day one and all of them are going under the water
We've got some important skills to talk
about when I get to the house.  So I'm going to
review a few things but a
you guys will see that all of this stuff
pays off throughout the season--
when you get the basics
inline early. This is actually going to
be pretty fun. I'm kind of excited about
tomorrow
Whooo man it was hot out there today you
guys can probably see
got a little of a burn going on. I guess that's
what happens on day one
my voice is a little bit raspy because I'm
kinda out of coaching mode right now--been
talkin extra loud at the pool
the skills that we learned today were very
very important.  Number one
was to make sure that you're able to
release the
air inside your lungs, very important
skill, a lot of kids
they struggle with this because it's not
something that's natural
When you're at the pool, you're
out of your environment.    You need
air
you know that you need air, you need oxygen.  So when you go under the water your body
goes into survival mode
and a you want to hold onto that air the
best you can
When you go underwater it
makes it a little bit difficult to let that
air out.  So very important skill is to be
able to
let the air out of your lungs while
you're under water because this leads into
breathing
Deep breaths in and you have to be
able to take deep breaths out.  So that's
a very important skill.  So
make sure you practice that.  Also with
flutter kicking
we went over a couple of skills today with
flutter kicking.   Make sure your legs are
long
Make sure you have floppy feet on the
end
and make sure your kick is short and fast.
A skill that I always tell my kids is to put
your hands on your hips
raise them forward, turn it this way
then your kick should be able to stay
within that width
the width of your hips.  Alright so make
sure you've got long legs
floppy feet and that your flutter kick is
short and fast.  You guys know that the
flutter kick
is the kick that is used with freestyle
and backstroke
So I hope you guys learned a little bit.
Don't forget to practice hard
and check back in tomorrow
Take Care